.TH CHKDF 8l "1 October r
.SH NAME
.B chkdf
- uses  
.B df
on a remote host to check that the local file system percentage usage is within
specified limits.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchkdf [-c \fI<config file>\fB [-d] [-e \fI<e-mail_address>\fB]
[-u \fI<login name>\fB] [-l] [-m \fI<max_usage>\fB] [-v] <hostname>\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chkdf
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX
and Linux.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The script
.BR chkdf ,
invokes a
.B ssh
session to the remote host specified on the command line and runs the
.B df
command. The output which is piped  back to the the administration host is used
by 
.B awk
to extract the percentage usage of the filesystems and compares this to
the maximum usage value set in the configuration file.
.LP
In the event of no host name being set on the command line the target host
is set to "localhost".
.LP
If the threshold is exceeded email is dispatched to the mail address specified
on the command line (see 
.B -m
option below).
.LP
If the configuration file exists but the \fIhost\fR is not found a default
value of 60% is used as the threshold for all file systems found.
.LP
If the \fIhost\fR is found in the configuration file but the file system
being checked is not, the \fIdefault\fR is used. This may be the global
\fIdefault\fR of 60% or a \fIhost\fR specific value set 
in the \fIconfig\fR file.
.LP
The script is most useful when invoked by
.B cron
on a regular schedule throughout the day. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB-c \fI<config file>\fR
The default configuration file is \fI/usr/local/etc/chkdf.cf\fR. An alternative
configuration file may be set with the \fB-c\fR option. If no configuration
file is found a message is written to standard error and the script terminates.
.TP 5
\fB-d\fR
Set the script to debug mode.
.IP
The \fB-x\fR option is set in the 
shell, output of the usage and maximum value comparator 
for each file system is turned on and the contents of the temporary files
generated are written to standard out.
.TP 5
\fB-e \fI<e-mail_recipient>\fR
Alerts will be sent to the mail address specified at
.IR e-mail_recipient .
If the 
.B -e
option is not used
.B chkdf
will attempt to send the email alert to the user invoking the command.
.TP
\fB-l\fR
Use the \fBsyslog\fR logging facility to record the invocation of 
.B chkdf 
and again should the threshold (see below) be exceeded. This degree of
logging for most purposes would be over the top but it does allow 
activity reports to be generated very easily.
.TP
\fB-m \fI<maximum>\fR
Set the threshold or maximum percentage usage for any file
system on the remote host to 
.IR <maximum> .
This override all settings in the configuration file. It is useful for
getting the current state of play on a new host. A value of zero (0) will
cause \fBchkdf\fR to report all file systems found.
.TP 5
\fB-u \fI<login_name>\fR
The 
.B ssh 
session will attempt to login with 
.IR login_name .
.br
If no 
.I login_name
is set on the command line
.B chkdf
will attempt to 
.B login
with the the current effective user id.
.TP
.B -v
Set the operation mode of the script to 
.IR verbose .
In
.I verbose mode
.B chkdf
will report it's progress as it runs and will write any alerts to 
\fIstandard out\fR. 

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
chkdf merlin
.fi
.ft R
.LP
Check the file system usage on merlin using the configuration file
\fI/usr/local/etc/chkdf.cf\fR.
.LP
Email the user invoking the command if any of the filesystems exceed the
usage thresholds set in the configuration file. If a filesystem is not found
in the configuration file use the default threshold. If no default is found
in the configuration file set a maximum value of 60%.
.nf
.ft CW
chkdf -m 65 -e systems.admin@citylinux.com caswallon-gw 
.fi
.ft R
.LP
Check the file system usage on "caswallon-gw". Override any thresholds
found in the configuration files. If any of the file
systems exceed 65% send an email alert to the systems administrator
at City Linux.
.SH FILES
.IR /usr/local/etc/chkdf.cf .
.SH BUGS
The script has very little input error checking. Name resolution and
network availability is not checked. The script is designed to be used
with frequently used host names where
.B ssh 
keys have already been exchanged.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR chkftpd ,
.IR chkfw ,
.IR clean .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford of City Linux.
.br
Offering systems management and support for
Linux, Windows and Apple environments. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
